ERR_TOO_MANY_REDIRECTS-prestashop-1-7
This problem is most of the times related to SSL issues.

Solution:
1. Try to log in to the backend via: https://<my-domain.com>/Backoffice/index.php

2. In PrestaShop Backend, click Shop Parameters (under Configure) > General.

3. Click "Yes" next to Enable SSL and click Save to apply the changes.

4. Then click "Yes" next to Enable SSL on all pages and click Save to apply the changes.

Explanation:
If you have HTTP to HTTPS redirects enabled while there is some other setting which redirects a https request to an http webpage, hen you will get this error.
For example, if you have HTTP to HTTPS redirects enabled, but you have a setting in .htaccess which redirects like this: Redirect 301 * http://<DOMAIN_NAME>.com/
Or if you see some other settings in there which redirects to a http page.

That's most commonly related to this issue in my opinion.

Next is if you for example use Cloudflare.
Cloudflare has 4 SSL options:

1. "Off (Not Secure)"
2. "Flexible"
3. "Full"
4. "Full (Strict)"

What SSL setting should I use?

This setting controls how Cloudflare’s servers connect to your origin for HTTPS requests. We recommend enabling the Full SSL (Strict) setting if possible. Common use cases for each are:

Off: No visitors will be able to view your site over HTTPS; they will be redirected to HTTP.

Flexible SSL: You cannot configure HTTPS support on your origin, even with a certificate that is not valid for your site. Visitors will be able to access your site over HTTPS, but connections to your origin will be made over HTTP.
* Note: You may encounter a redirect loop with some origin configurations.

Full SSL: Your origin supports HTTPS, but the certificate installed does not match your domain or is self-signed. Cloudflare will connect to your origin over HTTPS, but will not validate the certificate.

Full (strict): Your origin has a valid certificate (not expired and signed by a trusted CA or Cloudflare Origin CA) installed. Cloudflare will connect over HTTPS and verify the cert on each request.