create-a-cloud-SQL-database

Task 1: Create a Cloud SQL database
In this task, you configure a SQL server according to Google Cloud best practices and create a Private IP connection.

On the Navigation menu (Navigation menu), click SQL.
Click Create instance.
Click Choose MySQL.
Specify the following, and leave the remaining settings as their defaults:
Property	Value
Instance ID	wordpress-db
Root password	type a password
Region	us-central1
Zone	Any
Database Version	MySQL 5.7
Note the root password; it will be used in a later step and referred to as [ROOT_PASSWORD].
Expand Show configuration options.

Expand the Connectivity section.

Select Private IP.

In the dialog box, click Enable API, click Allocate and connect, and then click Close. This enables Private Services Access and attaches a Private IP address to your Cloud SQL server.

Private IP is an internal connection, unlike external IP, which egresses to the internet.
Expand the Machine type and storage section.

Provision the right amount of vCPU and memory. To choose a Machine Type, click Change, and then explore your options.

A few points to consider:

Shared-core machines are good for prototyping, and are not covered by Cloud SLA.
Each vCPU is subject to a 250 MB/s network throughput cap for peak performance. Each additional core increases the network cap, up to a theoretical maximum of 2000 MB/s.
For performance-sensitive workloads such as online transaction processing (OLTP), a general guideline is to ensure that your instance has enough memory to contain the entire working set and accommodate the number of active connections.
For this lab, select db-n1-standard-1, and then click Select.

Next, choose Storage type and Storage capacity.

A few points to consider:

SSD (solid-state drive) is the best choice for most use cases. HDD (hard-disk drive) offers lower performance, but storage costs are significantly reduced, so HDD may be preferable for storing data that is infrequently accessed and does not require very low latency.
There is a direct relationship between the storage capacity and its throughput.
Add a few zeros to the storage capacity to see how it affects the throughput. Reset the slider to 10GB.
Setting your storage capacity too low without enabling an automatic storage increase can cause your instance to lose its SLA.
Click Close.
Click Create at the bottom of the page to create the database instance.
You might have to wait for the Private IP changes to propagate before the Create button becomes clickable.
